# LOSH_Winter_Habitat

## This repository contains the following:
1) Code and data used for modeling multi-scale, winter habitat selection by Loggerhead Shrikes.
2) Code and data used for MPC (minimum convex polygon) home range size estimates and modeling and site fidelity modeling.
3) Files of data used for apparent annual and within-season survival estimates in Program MARK.


## Data analysis

### Habitat selection

We constructed generalized linear mixed models (GLMMs) in Program R 3.5.3 (R Core Team 2019) with the lme4 package (Bates et al. 2015) to assess habitat selection by all shrikes combined and by each demographic group separately (females, males, HY/SY individuals, AHY/ASY individuals). The dependent variable for all models was the binomial point type: Used or Available. We first conducted pairwise correlation tests among all variables at all scales using the pairs function in R and a standard correlation cutoff value (r = 0.7; Dormann et. al. 2013). If two variables were >70% correlated, we removed one of the two variables, based on an evaluation of those variables’ biological significance and potential for measurement error. We then attempted to replicate the hierarchical, behavioral process of habitat selection by birds (McGarigal et al. 2016) by building models with variables from the broadest (500-m) to finest (perch level) scales. At each scale, we compared models using Akaike’s Information Criterion with small-sample correction (AICc) and considered all models ΔAICc ≤2 to be equivalent (Akaike 1974, Burnham and Anderson 1998). All models included the bird identity as a random intercept to account for multiple locations involving the same individuals. 

We followed an information-theoretic model selection process by first comparing all univariate and bivariate models including the 500-m land cover data variables and a null model. We then added all combinations of up to 2 more variables from the 250-m scale to each of the top models from the 500-m scale to create models that combined scales. We restricted each model to contain at most 2 variables from each scale because we were testing such a large suite of variables in order to limit the number of models built for comparison. We then compared these combined models to the top models from the 500-m scale, univariate and bivariate models from variables at the next finest scale (250-m), and the null model. This process was then repeated for the 100-m, 11-m, and 5-m scales, respectively. After narrowing down to the final suite of top models, we assessed the importance and directionality of habitat selection for variables included in these models by examining the sign and 85% confidence intervals (CIs) around β coefficients (Burnham and Anderson 2002; Arnold 2010). We considered a variable to be of importance if its 85% CI did not overlap zero for the highest-weighted model in which it first appeared. To evaluate potential habitat partitioning among demographic groups, we qualitatively compared models and variables of importance amongst sexes and age classes.  

### Apparent survival

We built Cormack-Jolly-Seber (CJS) models in Program MARK 6.2 (White and Burnham 1999) to estimate both annual and within-season apparent survival of shrikes. As our assumed annual detection rate was 100%, our annual apparent survival rate is equivalent to our resight rate. We reported within-season apparent survival estimate as a weekly apparent survival rate obtained from CJS models and then extrapolated this estimate across the 15-week monitoring period to give an estimate for the entire non-breeding season (mid-November through February). Models were then built and compared using AICc values to test for possible effects of sex and age on within-season apparent survival and effects of sex, age, and year at the time of banding on annual apparent survival. We also included Bird ID as a fixed effect in all models as Program MARK does not allow for the inclusion of random effects. After testing for effects of sex and age on within-season apparent survival, we then tested for any correlation between within-season apparent survival and selected habitat characteristics by adding habitat characteristics as covariates, hierarchically from broadest to finest scale, following a similar model selection process as used for habitat selection models. Habitat characteristic covariates were those variables that were deemed important from habitat selection analyses, averaged across all used points within a non-breeding season for each individual.

### Space use and site fidelity

For each individual with ≥5 resight locations within any one season, we created 100% minimum convex polygons (MCP), which we considered their minimum home range, using the MCP function in the adehabitatHR package (Calenge 2006) in Program R 3.5.3 (R Core Team 2019). We mapped the resulting shapefiles in ArcGIS version 10.3.1 (ESRI 2011) to calculate the total area covered by each MCP. We evaluated the relationship between minimum home range estimates, log-transformed to fit normality, and year, sex, and age by creating linear mixed models (LMMs) using minimum home range size as the dependent variable and comparing all possible combinations of independent variables. As we had multiple MCP estimates for the same individuals that were resighted in subsequent years and estimates were based on a variable number of resight locations for each bird (ranging from five to 13), we included the bird identity and the number of resight locations as random effects in these models and compared models using AICc. 

Finally, we estimated site fidelity as the tendency of the shrike to return to or stay within the same non-breeding home range in subsequent years. Site fidelity was expressed as a measure of annual, non-breeding dispersal calculated as the distance (m) between each bird’s first point of relocation during a given year and the first location from the previous year. We then built LMMs and evaluated the relationship between these dispersal estimates, which were log-transformed to fit normality, and year, age, and sex in a similar manner to the minimum home range evaluation.
